---
title: Handling user input
description: Learn how to handle user input in Flutter.
links: []
---

Now that you know how to manage state in your
Flutter app, how can you let users interact
with your app and change its state?

## Introduction to handling user input

As a multi-platform UI framework,
there are many different ways for users
to interact with a Flutter app.
The resources in this section introduce
you to some of the common widgets used
for enabling user interaction within your app.

Some user input mechanisms, like [scrolling](/get-started/fundamentals/layout#scrolling-widgets),
have already been covered in [Layouts](/get-started/fundamentals/layout).

::u-alert
---
icon: i-lucide:info
title: About design system support
variant: subtle
---
#description
Flutter ships with prebuilt components for two design systems as part of the SDK, [Material](/ui/widgets/material) and [Cupertino](/ui/widgets/cupertino). For educational purposes, this page focuses on Material widgets, components that are stylized according to the [Material 3 design language](https://m3.material.io/) specifications.

The Flutter community on [pub.dev](%7B%7Bsite.pub%7D%7D), the package repository for Dart and Flutter, create and support additional design languages such as [Fluent UI](%7B%7Bsite.pub%7D%7D/packages/fluent_ui), [macOS UI](%7B%7Bsite.pub%7D%7D/packages/macos_ui), and more. If the existing design system components don't quite fit what you need, Flutter lets you build your own custom widgets, which is covered at the end of this section. No matter which design system you choose, the principals on this page apply.
::

> Reference : The **[widget catalog](http://localhost:3000/ui/widgets#design-systems)** **has an inventory of commonly used widgets in the** **[Material](http://localhost:3000/ui/widgets/material)** and [Cupertino](http://localhost:3000/ui/widgets/cupertino) libraries.

Next, we'll cover a few of the Material widgets that support common
use cases for handling user input in your Flutter app.

## Buttons

Buttons allow a user to initiate an action in the UI by clicking or tapping.
The Material library provides a variety of button types that are functionally similar,
but styled differently for various use cases, including:

- `ElevatedButton`: A button with some depth. Use elevated buttons to add
  dimension to otherwise mostly flat layouts.
- `FilledButton`: A filled button that should be used for
  important, final actions that complete a flow,
  like **Save**, **Join now**, or **Confirm**.
- `Tonal Button`: A middle ground button between
  `FilledButton` and `OutlinedButton`.
  They're useful in contexts where a lower-priority button requires more
  emphasis than an outline, like **Next**.
- `OutlinedButton`: A button with text and a visible border.
  These buttons contain actions that are important,
  but aren't the primary action in an app.
- `TextButton`: Clickable text, without a border.
  Since text buttons don't have visible borders,
  they must rely on their position
  relative to other content for context.
- `IconButton`: A button with an icon.
- `FloatingActionButton`: An icon button that hovers over
  content to promote a primary action.

> **Video**
> :
> [FloatingActionButton (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch/2uaoEDOgk_I?si=MQZcSp24oRaS_kiY)

There are usually 3 main aspects to constructing a button:
style, callback, and its child,
as seen in the following `ElevatedButton` sample code:

`WidgetStateProperty` and styling in the design section of
FWE. Of course, a button's appearance can be dependent on its state.
You can style a button based on its state using `WidgetStateProperty`.

- A button's callback function, `onPressed`,
  determines what happens when the button is clicked,
  therefore, this function is where you update your app state.
  If the callback is `null`, the button is disabled and
  nothing happens when a user presses the button.
- The button's `child`, which is displayed within the button's content area,
  is usually text or an icon that indicates the button's purpose.
- Finally, a button's `style` controls its appearance: color, border, and so on.

```js
int count = 0;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return ElevatedButton(
    style: ElevatedButton.styleFrom(
      textStyle: const TextStyle(fontSize: 20),
    ),
    onPressed: () {
      setState(() {
        count += 1;
      });
    },
    child: const Text('Enabled'),
  );
}
```

> **Checkpoint**
> :
> Complete this tutorial that teaches you how to build a
> "favorite" button:
> [Add interactivity to your Flutter app](/ui/interactivity)

**API Docs**`ElevatedButton``FilledButton``OutlinedButton``TextButton``IconButton``FloatingActionButton`

## Text

Several widgets support text input.

### `SelectableText`

Flutter's `Text` widget displays text on the screen,
but doesn't allow users to highlight or copy the text.
`SelectableText` displays a string of *user-selectable* text.

```js
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return const SelectableText('''
Two households, both alike in dignity,
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes''');
}
```

> **Video** [SelectableText (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=ZSU3ZXOs6hc)

### `RichText`

`RichText` lets you display strings of rich text in your app.
`TextSpan`, similar to `RichText`, allows you to display parts of text with
different text styles. It's not for handling user input,
but is useful if you're allowing users edit and format text.

```js
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return RichText(
    text: TextSpan(
      text: 'Hello ',
      style: DefaultTextStyle.of(context).style,
      children: const <TextSpan>[
        TextSpan(text: 'bold', style: TextStyle(fontWeight: FontWeight.bold)),
        TextSpan(text: ' world!'),
      ],
    ),
  );
}
```

> **Video** [Rich Text (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=rykDVh-QFfw)
>
> **Code** [Rich Text Editor code](%7B%7Bsite.github%7D%7D/flutter/samples/tree/main/simplistic_editor)

### `TextField`

A `TextField` lets users enter text in text box using a hardware or
onscreen keyboard.

`TextField`s have many different properties and configurations.
A few of the highlights:

- `InputDecoration` determines the text field's appearance,
  such as color and border.
- `controller`: A `TextEditingController` controls the text being edited.
  Why might you need a controller?
  By default, your app's users can type
  into the text field, but if you want to programmatically control the `TextField`
  and clear its value, for example, you'll need a `TextEditingController`.
- `onChanged`: This callback function triggers when the user changes
  the text field's value, such as when inserting or removing text.
- `onSubmitted`: This callback is triggered when the user indicates that
  they are done editing the text in the field;
  for example, by tapping the "enter" key when the text field is in focus.

The class supports other configurable properties, such as
`obscureText` that turns each letter into a `readOnly` circle as its entered and
`readOnly` which prevents the user from changing the text.

```js
final TextEditingController _controller = TextEditingController();

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return TextField(
    controller: _controller,
    decoration: const InputDecoration(
      border: OutlineInputBorder(),
      labelText: 'Mascot Name',
    ),
  );
}
```

> **Checkpoint**
> :
> Complete this 4-part cookbook series that walks
> you through how to create a text field,
> retrieve its value, and update your app state:
>
> 1. [Create and style a text field](/cookbook/forms/text-input)
> 2. [Retrieve the value of a text field](/cookbook/forms/retrieve-input)
> 3. [Handle changes to a text field](/cookbook/forms/text-field-changes)
> 4. [Focus and text fields](/cookbook/forms/focus).

### Form

`Form` is an optional container for grouping together multiple
form field widgets, such as `TextField`.

Each individual form field should be wrapped in a `FormField`
widget with the `Form` widget as a common ancestor.
Convenience widgets exist that pre-wrap form field widgets in a
`FormField` for you.
For example, the `Form` widget version of `TextField` is `TextFormField`.

Using a `Form` provides access to a `FormState`,
which lets you save, reset, and validate each `FormField`
that descends from this `Form`.
You can also provide a `GlobalKey` to identify a specific form,
as shown in the following code:

```js
final GlobalKey<FormState> _formKey = GlobalKey<FormState>();

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Form(
    key: _formKey,
    child: Column(
      crossAxisAlignment: CrossAxisAlignment.start,
      children: <Widget>[
        TextFormField(
          decoration: const InputDecoration(
            hintText: 'Enter your email',
          ),
          validator: (String? value) {
            if (value == null || value.isEmpty) {
              return 'Please enter some text';
            }
            return null;
          },
        ),
        Padding(
          padding: const EdgeInsets.symmetric(vertical: 16.0),
          child: ElevatedButton(
            onPressed: () {
              // Validate returns true if the form is valid, or false otherwise.
              if (_formKey.currentState!.validate()) {
                // Process data.
              }
            },
            child: const Text('Submit'),
          ),
        ),
      ],
    ),
  );
}
```

> **Checkpoint**
> Complete this tutorial to learn how to
> [build a form with validation](/cookbook/forms/validation)
>
> **Demo**[Form app](https://github.com/flutter/samples/tree/main/form_app/)
>
> **Code**[Form app code](%7B%7Bsite.github%7D%7D/flutter/samples/tree/main/form_app)

**API Docs**`TextField``RichText``SelectableText``Form`

## Select a value from a group of options

Provide a way to users to select from several options.

### SegmentedButton

`SegmentedButton` allows users to select from a
minimal group of 2-5 items.

The data type, `<T>`, can be a built-in type such as
`int`, `String`, `bool` or an enum.
A `SegmentedButton` has a few relevant properties:

- `segments`, a list of `ButtonSegment`s, where each represents a "segment"
  or option that the user can select.
  Visually, each `ButtonSegment` can have an icon, text label, or both.
- `multiSelectionEnabled` indicates whether the user is allowed
  to select multiple options. This property defaults to false.
- `selected` identifies the currently selected value(s).
  **Note:** `selected` is of type of `Set<T>`, so if you're only
  allowing users to select one value, that value must be
  provided as a`Set` with a single element.
- The `onSelectionChanged` callback triggers when a user selects any segments.
  It provides a list of the selected segments so you can update your app state.
- Additional styling parameters allow you to modify the button's appearance.

For example, `style` takes a `ButtonStyle`providing a way to configure a `selectedIcon`.

```js
enum Calendar { day, week, month, year }

// StatefulWidget...
Calendar calendarView = Calendar.day;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return SegmentedButton<Calendar>(
    segments: const <ButtonSegment<Calendar>>[
      ButtonSegment<Calendar>(
          value: Calendar.day,
          label: Text('Day'),
          icon: Icon(Icons.calendar_view_day)),
      ButtonSegment<Calendar>(
          value: Calendar.week,
          label: Text('Week'),
          icon: Icon(Icons.calendar_view_week)),
      ButtonSegment<Calendar>(
          value: Calendar.month,
          label: Text('Month'),
          icon: Icon(Icons.calendar_view_month)),
      ButtonSegment<Calendar>(
          value: Calendar.year,
          label: Text('Year'),
          icon: Icon(Icons.calendar_today)),
    ],
    selected: <Calendar>{calendarView},
    onSelectionChanged: (Set<Calendar> newSelection) {
      setState(() {
        // By default, there is only a single segment that can be
        // selected at a time, so its value is always the first
        calendarView = newSelection.first;
      });
    },
  );
}
```

### Chip

`Chip` is a compact way of representing an
attribute, text, entity, or action for a specific context.
Specialized `Chip` widgets exist for specific use cases:

- [InputChip](%7B%7Bsite.api%7D%7D/flutter/material/InputChip-class.html) represents a complex piece of information,
  such as an entity (person, place, or thing), or
  conversational text, in a compact form.
- [ChoiceChip](%7B%7Bsite.api%7D%7D/flutter/material/ChoiceChip-class.html) allows a single selection from a set of options.
  Choice chips contain related descriptive text or categories.
- [FilterChip](%7B%7Bsite.api%7D%7D/flutter/material/FilterChip-class.html) uses tags or descriptive words to filter content.
- [ActionChip](%7B%7Bsite.api%7D%7D/flutter/material/ActionChip-class.html) represents an action related to primary content.

Every `Chip` widget requires a `label`.
It can optionally have an `avatar` (such as an icon or a user's profile picture)
and an `onDeleted` callback, which shows a delete icon that
when triggered, deletes the chip.
A `Chip` widget's appearance can also be customized by setting a
number of optional parameters such as `shape`, `color`, and `iconTheme`.

You will typically use `Wrap`, a widget that displays its children in
multiple horizontal or vertical runs, to make sure your chips wrap and
don't get cut off at the edge of your app.

```js
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return const SizedBox(
    width: 500,
    child: Wrap(
      alignment: WrapAlignment.center,
      spacing: 8,
      runSpacing: 4,
      children: [
        Chip(
          avatar: CircleAvatar(
              backgroundImage: AssetImage('assets/images/dash_chef.png')),
          label: Text('Chef Dash'),
        ),
        Chip(
          avatar: CircleAvatar(
              backgroundImage:
                  AssetImage('assets/images/dash_firefighter.png')),
          label: Text('Firefighter Dash'),
        ),
        Chip(
          avatar: CircleAvatar(
              backgroundImage: AssetImage('assets/images/dash_musician.png')),
          label: Text('Musician Dash'),
        ),
        Chip(
          avatar: CircleAvatar(
              backgroundImage: AssetImage('assets/images/dash_artist.png')),
          label: Text('Artist Dash'),
        ),
      ],
    ),
  );
}
```

### DropdownMenu

A `DropdownMenu` allows users to select a choice from a menu
of options and places the selected text into a `TextField`.
It also allows users to filter the menu items based on the text input.

Configuration parameters include the following:

- `dropdownMenuEntries` provides a list of `DropdownMenuEntry`s that
  describes each menu item.
  The menu might contain information such as a text label, and
  a leading or trailing icon.
  (This is also the only required parameter.)
- `TextEditingController` allows programmatically controlling the `TextField`.
- The `onSelected` callback triggers when the user selects an option.
- `initialSelection` allows you to configure the default value.
- Additional parameters are also available for
  customizing the widget's look and behavior.

```js
enum ColorLabel {
  blue('Blue', Colors.blue),
  pink('Pink', Colors.pink),
  green('Green', Colors.green),
  orange('Orange', Colors.orange),
  grey('Grey', Colors.grey);

  const ColorLabel(this.label, this.color);
  final String label;
  final Color color;
}

// StatefulWidget...
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return DropdownMenu<ColorLabel>(
    initialSelection: ColorLabel.green,
    controller: colorController,
    // requestFocusOnTap is enabled/disabled by platforms when it is null.
    // On mobile platforms, this is false by default. Setting this to true will
    // trigger focus request on the text field and virtual keyboard will appear
    // afterward. On desktop platforms however, this defaults to true.
    requestFocusOnTap: true,
    label: const Text('Color'),
    onSelected: (ColorLabel? color) {
      setState(() {
        selectedColor = color;
      });
    },
    dropdownMenuEntries: ColorLabel.values
      .map<DropdownMenuEntry<ColorLabel>>(
          (ColorLabel color) {
            return DropdownMenuEntry<ColorLabel>(
              value: color,
              label: color.label,
              enabled: color.label != 'Grey',
              style: MenuItemButton.styleFrom(
                foregroundColor: color.color,
              ),
            );
      }).toList(),
  );
}
```

> **Video**
> :
> [DropdownMenu (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=giV9AbM2gd8?si=E23hjg72cjMTe_mz)

### Slider

The `Slider` widget lets a user adjust a value by moving an indicator,
such as a volume bar.

Configuration parameters for the `Slider` widget:

- `value` represents the slider's current value
- `onChanged` is the callback that gets triggered when the handle is moved
- `min` and `max` establish minimum and maximum values allowed by the slider
- `divisions` establishes a discrete interval with which the user can move the

\--- Unknown node: hardBreak ---

handle along the track.

```js
double _currentVolume = 1;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Slider(
    value: _currentVolume,
    max: 5,
    divisions: 5,
    label: _currentVolume.toString(),
    onChanged: (double value) {
      setState(() {
        _currentVolume = value;
      });
    },
  );
}
```

> **Video**
> :
> [Slider, RangeSlider, CupertinoSlider (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=ufb4gIPDmEss)

**API Docs:**`SegmentedButton``DropdownMenu``Slider``Chip`

## Toggle between values

There are several ways that your UI can allow toggling between values.

### Checkbox, Switch, and Radio

Provide an option to toggle a single value on and off.
The functional logic behind these widgets are the same,
as all 3 are built on top of `ToggleableStateMixin`, though
each provides slight presentation differences.:

- `Checkbox` is a container that is empty when false or
  filled with a checkmark when true.
- `Switch` has a handle that is on the left when false and
  slides to the right when true.
- `Radio` is similar to a `Checkbox` in that it's a container that is
  empty when false, but filled in when true.

The configuration for `Checkbox` and `Switch` contain:

- a `value` that is `true` or `false`
- and an `onChanged` callback which is triggered when
  the user toggles the widget

### Checkbox

```js
bool isChecked = false;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Checkbox(
    checkColor: Colors.white,
    value: isChecked,
    onChanged: (bool? value) {
      setState(() {
        isChecked = value!;
      });
    },
  );
}
```

### Switch

```js
bool light = true;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Switch(
    // This bool value toggles the switch.
    value: light,
    activeThumbColor: Colors.red,
    onChanged: (bool value) {
      // This is called when the user toggles the switch.
      setState(() {
        light = value;
      });
    },
  );
}
```

### Radio

A `RadioGroup` contains `Radio` buttons that allow the user to
select between mutually exclusive values.
When the user selects a radio button in a group,
the other radio buttons are unselected.

- A particular `Radio` button's `value` represent that button's value.
- The selected value for a `RadioGroup` is identified by
  the `groupValue` parameter.
- `RadioGroup` has an `onChanged` callback that
  gets triggered when users click it, like `Switch` and `Checkbox`.

```js
enum Character { musician, chef, firefighter, artist }

class RadioExample extends StatefulWidget {
  const RadioExample({super.key});

  @override
  State<RadioExample> createState() => _RadioExampleState();
}

class _RadioExampleState extends State<RadioExample> {
  Character? _character = Character.musician;

  void setCharacter(Character? value) {
    setState(() {
      _character = value;
    });
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return RadioGroup(
      groupValue: _character,
      onChanged: setCharacter,
      child: Column(
        children: <Widget>[
          ListTile(
            title: const Text('Musician'),
            leading: Radio<Character>(value: Character.musician),
          ),
          ListTile(
            title: const Text('Chef'),
            leading: Radio<Character>(value: Character.chef),
          ),
          ListTile(
            title: const Text('Firefighter'),
            leading: Radio<Character>(value: Character.firefighter),
          ),
          ListTile(
            title: const Text('Artist'),
            leading: Radio<Character>(value: Character.artist),
          ),
        ],
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

#### Bonus: CheckboxListTile & SwitchListTile

These convenience widgets are the same checkbox and switch widgets,
but support a label (as a `ListTile`).

```js
double timeDilation = 1.0;
bool _lights = false;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Column(
    children: [
      CheckboxListTile(
        title: const Text('Animate Slowly'),
        value: timeDilation != 1.0,
        onChanged: (bool? value) {
          setState(() {
            timeDilation = value! ? 10.0 : 1.0;
          });
        },
        secondary: const Icon(Icons.hourglass_empty),
      ),
      SwitchListTile(
        title: const Text('Lights'),
        value: _lights,
        onChanged: (bool value) {
          setState(() {
            _lights = value;
          });
        },
        secondary: const Icon(Icons.lightbulb_outline),
      ),
    ],
  );
}
```

> **Video**
> :
> [CheckboxListTile (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=RkSqPAn9szs)

> **Video**
> :
> [SwitchListTile (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=0igIjvtEWNU)

**API Docs**`Checkbox``CheckboxListTile``Switch``SwitchListTile``Radio`

## Select a date or time

Widgets are provided so the user can select a date and time.

There is a set of dialogs that enable users to select a date or time,
as you'll see in the following sections.
With the exception of differing date types -
`DateTime` for dates vs `TimeOfDay` for time -
these dialogs function similarly, you can configure them by providing:

- a default `initialDate` or `initialTime`
- or an `initialEntryMode` that determines the picker UI that's displayed.

### DatePickerDialog

This dialog allows the user to select a date or a range of dates.
Activate by calling the `showDatePicker` function,
which returns a `Future<DateTime>`,
so don't forget to await the asynchronous function call!

```js
DateTime? selectedDate;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  var date = selectedDate;

  return Column(children: [
    Text(
      date == null
          ? 'You haven\\\'t picked a date yet.'
          : DateFormat('MM-dd-yyyy').format(date),
    ),
    ElevatedButton.icon(
      icon: const Icon(Icons.calendar_today),
      onPressed: () async {
        var pickedDate = await showDatePicker(
          context: context,
          initialEntryMode: DatePickerEntryMode.calendarOnly,
          initialDate: DateTime.now(),
          firstDate: DateTime(2019),
          lastDate: DateTime(2050),
        );

        setState(() {
          selectedDate = pickedDate;
        });
      },
      label: const Text('Pick a date'),
    )
  ]);
}
```

### TimePickerDialog

`TimePickerDialog` is a dialog that presents a time picker.
It can be activated by calling the `showTimePicker()` function.
Instead of returning a `Future<DateTime>`,
`showTimePicker` instead returns a `Future<TimeOfDay>`.
Once again, don't forget to await the function call!

```js
TimeOfDay? selectedTime;

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  var time = selectedTime;

  return Column(children: [
    Text(
      time == null ? 'You haven\\\'t picked a time yet.' : time.format(context),
    ),
    ElevatedButton.icon(
      icon: const Icon(Icons.calendar_today),
      onPressed: () async {
        var pickedTime = await showTimePicker(
          context: context,
          initialEntryMode: TimePickerEntryMode.dial,
          initialTime: TimeOfDay.now(),
        );

        setState(() {
          selectedTime = pickedTime;
        });
      },
      label: const Text('Pick a time'),
    )
  ]);
}
```

::tip
Calling `showDatePicker()` and `showTimePicker()`
is equivalent to calling `showDialog()` with `DatePickerDialog()` and
`TimePickerDialog()`, respectively.
Internally, both functions use the `showDialog()` function with
their respective `Dialog` widgets.
To enable state restoration, you can also push
`DatePickerDialog()` and `TimePickerDialog()` directly
on to the `Navigator` stack.
::

**API Docs:**`showDatePicker``showTimePicker`

## Swipe & slide

### `Dismissible`

A `Dismissible` is a widget that enables users to dismiss it by swiping.
It has a number of configuration parameters, including:

- A `child` widget
- An `onDismissed` callback that is triggered when the user swipes
- Styling parameters such as `background`
- It's important to include a `key` object as well so that they can be uniquely

identified from sibling `Dismissible` widgets in the widget tree.

```js
List<int> items = List<int>.generate(100, (int index) => index);

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return ListView.builder(
    itemCount: items.length,
    padding: const EdgeInsets.symmetric(vertical: 16),
    itemBuilder: (BuildContext context, int index) {
      return Dismissible(
        background: Container(
          color: Colors.green,
        ),
        key: ValueKey<int>(items[index]),
        onDismissed: (DismissDirection direction) {
          setState(() {
            items.removeAt(index);
          });
        },
        child: ListTile(
          title: Text(
            'Item ${items[index]}',
          ),
        ),
      );
    },
  );
}
```

> **Video**
> :
> [Dismissible (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=iEMgjrfuc58?si=f0S7IdaA9PIWIYvl)
>
> **Checkpoint**
> :
> Complete this tutorial on how to
> [implement swipe to dismiss](/cookbook/gestures/dismissible)
> using the
> dismissible widget.

**API Docs:**`Dismissible`

## Looking for more widgets?

This page features just a few of the common Material widgets that
you can use for handling user input in your Flutter app.
Check out the [Material Widget library](/ui/widgets/material) and
[Material Library API docs](%7B%7Bsite.api%7D%7D/flutter/material/material-library.html) for a full list of widgets.

> **Demo**
> :
> See Flutter's
> [Material 3 Demo](https://github.com/flutter/samples/tree/main/material_3_demo)
> for a curated sample of user input widgets
> available in the Material library.

If the Material and Cupertino libraries don't have a widget that
does what you need, check out [pub.dev](%7B%7Bsite.pub%7D%7D) to find
Flutter & Dart community-owned and maintained packages.
For example, the `flutter_slidable` package provides
a `Slidable` widget that is more customizable than
the `Dismissible` widget described in the previous section.

> **Video**
> :
> [flutter\_slidable (Package of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=QFcFEpFmNJ8)

## Build interactive widgets with GestureDetector

Have you scoured the widget libraries, pub.dev, asked your coding friends,
and still can't find a widget that
fits the user interaction that you're looking for?
You can build your own custom widget and
make it interactive using `GestureDetector`.

> **Checkpoint**
> :
> Use this recipe as a starting point to create your own
> *custom*
> button widget
> that can
> [handle taps](/cookbook/gestures/handling-taps)
> .

> **Video**
> :
> [GestureDetector (Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=WhVXkCFPmK4)

> **Reference**
> :
> Check out
> [Taps, drags, and other gestures](/ui/interactivity/gestures#gestures)
> which explains how to listen
> for, and respond to, gestures in Flutter.

> **Bonus Video**
> :
> Curious how Flutter's
> `GestureArena`
> turns raw user interaction data into
> human recognizable concepts like taps, drags, and pinches?
> Check out this video:
> [GestureArena (Decoding Flutter)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=Q85LBtBdi0U)

### Don't forget about accessibility!

If you're building a custom widget,
annotate its meaning with the `Semantics` widget.
It provides descriptions and metadata to screen readers and
other semantic analysis-based tools.

> **Video**
> :
> [Semantics (Flutter Widget of the Week)](%7B%7Bsite.youtube-site%7D%7D/watch?v=NvtMt_DtFrQ?si=o79BqAg9NAl8EE8_)

**API Docs**`GestureDetector``Semantics`

## Testing

Once you have finished building user interactions
into your app, don't forget to write tests to
ensure that everything works as expected!

These tutorials walk you through writing tests that
simulate user interactions in your app:

> **Checkpoint**
> :
> Follow this
> [tap, drag, and enter text](/cookbook/testing/widget/tap-drag)
> cookbook article and learn how to
> use
> `WidgetTester`
> to simulate and test user interactions in your app.
>
> **Bonus Tutorial**
> :
> The
> [handle scrolling](/cookbook/testing/widget/scrolling)
> cookbook recipe shows you how to verify that
> lists of widgets contain the expected content by
> scrolling through the lists using widget tests.

## Next: Networking

This page was an introduction to handling user input.
Now that you know how to handle input from app users,
you can make your app even more interesting by adding
external data. In the next section,
you'll learn how to fetch data for your app over a network,
how to convert data to and from JSON, authentication,
and other networking features.

## Feedback

As this section of the website is evolving,
we [welcome your feedback](https://google.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6A9KxXR7XmMrNsy?page=%22user-input%22)!
